# CourseMapper - Requirements and Specification Document


Students struggle to plan what courses they intend to take in the long run, and often feel overwhelmed, as it can be difficult to keep track of prerequisites for multiple classes. Furthermore, current and prospective students are often buried under long, complicated academic program pages that require an advisor to properly decipher. For students in the middle of their degree, it can feel incredibly disorienting to not have a clear roadmap to their degree’s completion, especially during the pandemic. Currently, students could either manually create a list of courses from the academic calendar, or speak to an advisor to get a general idea of their objectives. Students may also use SFU MySchedule to plan their current or upcoming semester, but it does not have any functionality to plan multiple semesters ahead.

CourseMapper is a project intended to help SFU students visualize and plan their undergraduate degree. Students may either input their courses manually, or upload an advising transcript. Given an inputted objective (such as a desired course or degree), CourseMapper will display needed courses in a tree diagram, an estimated tuition calculation, and will show a path for the student to take semester by semester. The student may then tweak the path to their liking, and then enter “directions mode,” a step-by-step list of courses to be registered. Later, a student may register with CourseMapper to save their course plans and grades, to allow easy modification later on. Those who are given admin privileges for CourseMapper may manually alter course selections (when the automated systems fail), and can assist users with general website inquiries. Currently, some SFU academic programs offer similar services, such as “SFU Navigator” for engineering students. However, there is no general solution for students taking other degrees. We will use the Django MVC framework, along with SFU’s public REST APIs to retrieve current (and past) course listings. 
